# Demangler

A C++ library and tools for demangling mangled C++ names.

This repository contains the following libraries:
* `demangler` -- demangling library capable to handle names generated by the GCC/Clang, Microsoft Visual C++, and Borland C++ compilers.

This repository contains the following tools:
* `demanglertool` -- frontend for the `demangler` library.
* `demangler_grammar_gen` -- tool for generating new grammars for the `demangler` library.

## Usage Example

### Demangler Library

For usage examples of the Demangler library, see implementation of `demanglertool` (in `src/demanglertool`) and `demangler` unit tests (in `tests/demanglertool`).

### Demangler Tool

To demangle GCC C++ name `_ZN9wikipedia7article6formatEv` run:
```
./demangler _ZN9wikipedia7article6formatEv
```

To demangle Borland C++ name `@HTTPParse@_16402` run:
```
./demangler @HTTPParse@_16402
```

Run `./demangler --help` to list all the available options.

### Demangler grammar generation tool

Run `./demangler-grammar-gen --help` to list all the available options.

## Requirements

* A compiler supporting C++14
  * On Windows, only Microsoft Visual C++ is supported (version >= Visual Studio 2015).
* CMake (version >= 3.6)

## Build and Installation

* Recursively clone the repository (it contains submodules):
  * `git clone --recursive https://github.com/avast-tl/demangler.git`
* Linux:
  * `cd demangler`
  * `mkdir build && cd build`
  * `cmake .. -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=<path>`
  * `make && make install`
* Windows:
  * Open MSBuild command prompt, or any terminal that is configured to run the `msbuild` command.
  * `cd demangler`
  * `mkdir build && cd build`
  * `cmake .. -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=<path> -G<generator>`
  * `msbuild /m /p:Configuration=Release demangler.sln`
  * `msbuild /m /p:Configuration=Release INSTALL.vcxproj`
  * Alternatively, you can open `demangler.sln` generated by `cmake` in Visual Studio IDE.

You must pass the following parameters to `cmake`:
* `-DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=<path>` to set the installation path to `<path>`.
* (Windows only) `-G<generator>` is `-G"Visual Studio 14 2015"` for 32-bit build using Visual Studio 2015, or `-G"Visual Studio 14 2015 Win64"` for 64-bit build using Visual Studio 2015. Later versions of Visual Studio may be used.

You can pass the following additional parameters to `cmake`:
* `-DDEMANGLER_DOC=ON` to build with API documentation (requires Doxygen and Graphviz, disabled by default).
* `-DDEMANGLER_TOOLS=ON` to build with tools (disabled by default).
* `-DDEMANGLER_TESTS=ON` to build with tests (disabled by default).
* `-DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug` to build with debugging information, which is useful during development. By default, the project is built in the `Release` mode. This has no effect on Windows, but the same thing can be achieved by running `msbuild` with the `/p:Configuration=Debug` parameter.

## Library Use

### Adding Demangler to your project via git submodule

A single target named `demangler` is exposed. It can be used as follows:
```cmake
target_link_libraries(project-that-needs-demangler demangler)
```

### Using Demangler via CMake `find_package` command

Not supported at the moment.

## API Documentation

You can generate API documentation by yourself. Pass `-DDEMANGLER_DOC=ON` to `cmake` and run `make doc`.

## License

Copyright (c) 2017 Avast Software, licensed under the MIT license. See the `LICENSE` file for more details.

Demangler uses third-party libraries or other resources listed, along with their licenses, in the `LICENSE-THIRD-PARTY` file.

## Contributing

See [RetDec contribution guidelines](https://github.com/avast-tl/retdec/wiki/Contribution-Guidelines).
